[Music]
what are shares
shares are certainly the
most popular financial instrument of all but
despite their notoriety,
sometimes people and even
investors don't understand how they
work
spas are joint-stock companies companies
that take on a particular
legal form  and whose ownership is divided into
many small pieces called shares, the
total value of the company is the sum of
all the shares of which it is composed and which
are divided among the different shareholders and I
can buy a slice of a company
using precisely these tools
financial
let's take a practical example or a
pizzeria that is doing so well that I
intend to open another 200 around the
world to finance my project
or various ways I can do it slowly
using the company's profits
or to do it first I can raise
some money by selling  shares of shares in
exchange for money
thus transforming my company into a joint stock
company which I will call pizza
spa in this way you will no longer be the sole
owner of the company because every
person who buys a share becomes a
small shareholder therefore it means that they are
against  Apple shares I am an
owner of Apple
theoretically yes practically not really
when I buy a share
I am exchanging money for a part
of the company and its share capital
in fact it can be said that I am investing
in that company becoming in
effect a shareholder  whoever buys a lot of shares
is defined as an absolute majority shareholder
and is the one who has
decision-making power in the company to become a
majority shareholder but
a lot of money is needed,
generally when we invest we buy
tiny fractions we have no
decision-making power except through the
vote in the meeting
so they exist  different types of shares
that give different privileges but for now let's
not complicate our lives by returning to the
pizzeria I decide to sell half of the
pizzeria in exchange for investments
I divide pizza spa into one million shares I
decided to sell half of the business
therefore 500,000 shares to the public  with an
initial price of 10 euros per share
this is called an initial public offering
if for each share there is an
investor who decides to buy it I
will receive 10 euros for each share therefore
10 for 500 thousand equals 5 million euros
which he can use to grow
my business if my business goes well
more people will want my shares and
will be able to buy them from those who had
previously bought them from me in this
way we have a market because there are
people who want to buy and others
who want to sell the shares in fact
the market  stock and precisely the set
of all buyers and sellers of
shares
the prices of the shares depend on
supply and demand if my pizza
spa starts to lose customers my
shareholders will want to sell the shares
increasing the supply and therefore decreasing
the price  of individual shares
on the contrary if my business was going
well everyone would want to buy the shares
consequently increasing the demand and
therefore also the price when I buy an
Apple share
I am giving the money directly to Apple
no I am giving it to someone who had
bought a share in  precedence and
therefore wants to sell it to the company
issuing shares serves to raise
capital
once collected the fact that the
price of the shares increases does not
directly enrich the company with
liquidity but obviously also increases the
value of the shares still in
its possession in the real world
public shares are listed on
stock exchanges, i.e. in companies that
manage the financial market of
their underlying shares, for example,
Italian shares are listed on the Italian stock exchange,
the stock exchanges have physical offices and
IT platforms where
all purchase
and sale orders are processed  of the underlying shares and
the price is determined in
real time based on supply and demand, it
is not the companies themselves who decide the
price of their shares when they are
listed on the stock exchange but it is the banks and the
financial advisor who help the companies
to do  their initial public offering,
thus establishing the starting price
of the shares, not all companies
are listed on the stock exchange, however, a spa can
choose to sell its shares
privately. What are shares for?
For us, they are a useful financial instrument
for investing our money.
Some  companies distribute dividends
to their shareholders which means that over a
period of time for some of three months
for others of six months or a year a
part of the company's profits is
distributed among all the shareholders so if
I hold one percent of the
pizza spa company that distributes dividends
every year
I know that annually I will receive one
percent of the profits that the company has
decided to distribute to its
shareholders.
many shares however do not
distribute dividends but are
still bought by many people
this is because they are purchased with the
hope that they will increase in value
if I am convinced that pizza spa continues
to sell more and more for many years and
I believe that a share of that company
will increase in value over time I can
decide to buy shares even
if it does not distribute dividends
but we must remember the rule of  'gold
every investment involves a risk
in fact when I buy a share there is the
risk that it could lose value
every day some securities lose
value and others gain value and being able
to predict these changes is practically impossible for us
the only thing we know  is that in
general up to now on average the
market has always increased its value in the long term
investing in a single share is too
risky which is why we often invest
in instruments that group together many
diversified shares called mutual funds
or ETFs but not only  investing
solely in the stock market is
however often too risky for
our savings
so we must also use other
financial instruments such as
bonds which we will talk about in the
next episode real stocks let's take
a look at one of the
most famous stocks to see how in practice
apply what I explained before,
just google the apple
stock index to see which stock exchange
the stock is listed on, in this case the
nasdaq in new york, we can see the
value of the stock as it changes over time
and also the capitalization, i.e. how much
all the shares are worth  put together
Apple for example is the company with the
highest capitalization in the world if
we divide the capitalization by the
share price
we get the number of shares in this
case Apple has almost 5 billion shares
in circulation
if we look again we can find out if
the  company distributes dividends and it is
also easy to find the history
by summarizing the shares are a
tool that companies use to
raise money each share
corresponds to a small piece of the
company they are bought by private entities
and companies as a form of investment both to
earn dividends when there are
both  because it is believed that they increase in
value they are a fairly risky form of investment
so we need to
diversify everything is clear well then see you
next episode
[Music]